DOCSP-48385 Make Atlas Vector Search page (#1042)
mongodb/docs-node: source/atlas-vector-search.txt

.. _node-atlas-vector-search:

===================

> Atlas Vector Search

Author: I'm leaning towards keeping the title the same for consistency: this page is the one after the Atlas Search page already merged in: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-node/commit/9e31836ff6cb9c8174681c9ac5452f15f2e279f6 which is just called Atlas Search, and in our other docs that have avs pages they are all just titled atlas vector search https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/kotlin/coroutine/current/fundamentals/builders/vector-search/, https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/csharp/current/fundamentals/atlas-vector-search/

> Atlas Vector Search

Reviewer: Titles should be between 30-60 characters ([maintenance wiki](https://wiki.corp.mongodb.com/spaces/DE/pages/315000290/Content+Maintenance#ContentMaintenance-TooShort)). I'm going to add a check to the PR Checklist next week to make sure we check for title length!
Also, this page aligns with the content on the ["Run Vector Search Queries"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/) page of the Atlas docs, so I think it makes sense to have a similar title. Let me know what you think!

> Atlas Vector Search

Author: Ok, sounds good, I'm good with following the title guidelines!

semantic search, hybrid search, and generative search, including
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).

By using Atlas as a vector database, you can seamlessly index vector data along
with your other data in Atlas. This allows you to filter on fields in your
collection and perform vector search queries against vector data. You can also
combine vector search with full-text search queries to return the most relevant
results for your use case. You can integrate {+vector-search+} with popular AI
frameworks and services to implement vector search in your applications.

To learn more about {+vector-search+}, see the :atlas:`{+vector-search+}
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` guide in the MongoDB Atlas
documentation.

.. important:: Feature Compatibility

   To learn what versions of MongoDB Atlas support this feature, see
   :atlas:`Limitations </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#limitations>`
   in the MongoDB Atlas documentation.

Perform a Vector Search
-----------------------

To use this feature, you must create a vector search index and index your
vector embeddings. To learn about how to programmatically create a

> vector search index, see the :ref:`node-indexes` section in the

Author: I'll create a new ticket!

> vector search index, see the :ref:`node-indexes` section in the

Reviewer: You can drop a link here when you do!

> vector search index, see the :ref:`node-indexes` section in the

Author: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-48608

semantic search, hybrid search, and generative search, including
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).

To learn more about {+vector-search+}, see the :atlas:`{+vector-search+}
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` guide in the MongoDB Atlas
documentation.

.. important:: Feature Compatibility

   To learn what versions of MongoDB Atlas support this feature, see
   :atlas:`Limitations </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#limitations>`
   in the MongoDB Atlas documentation.

Perform a Vector Search
-----------------------

To use this feature, you must create a vector search index and index your
vector embeddings. To learn about how to programmatically create a
vector search index, see the :atlas:`Create an Atlas Vector Search index
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-type/#create-an-atlas-vector-search-index>` section in the
Atlas documentation. To learn more about vector embeddings, see
:atlas:`How to Create Vector Embeddings
</atlas-vector-search/create-embeddings/>` in the Atlas documentation.

After you create a vector search index on your vector embeddings, you
can reference this index in your pipeline stage, as shown in the
following section.

Sample Data

> -----------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~
```
Should be a subheading

The example on this page shows how to build an aggregation pipeline that uses the
``$vectorSearch`` stage to perform an exact vector search on the
``sample_mflix.embedded_movies`` collection in the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets
</sample-data>`.

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Vector Search Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can perform a vector search query by using the ``$vectorSearch`` stage
in an :ref:`aggregation pipeline <node-aggregation>`. To perform a vector
search on a collection, you must first have a collection with a field that contains
vector embeddings and a vector search index that covers that field. 

> The aggregation pipeline searches  the ``plot``  field of each document in the collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the aggregation pipeline searches  the ``plot``  field of each document in the collection
```

      `{"plot":"Agent J travels in time to M.I.B.'s early days in 1969 to stop an alien from assassinating his friend Agent K and changing history.","title":"Men in Black 3","score":0.7712380886077881}`
      '{"plot":"Bound by a shared destiny, a teen bursting with scientific curiosity and a former boy-genius inventor embark on a mission to unearth the secrets of a place somewhere in time and space that exists in their collective memory.","title":"Tomorrowland","score":0.7669923901557922}'
      '{"plot":"With the help of his uncle, a man travels to the future to try and bring his girlfriend back to life.","title":"Love Story 2050","score":0.7649372816085815}'
      '{"plot":"A dimension-traveling wizard gets stuck in the 21st century because cell-phone radiation interferes with his magic. With his home world on the brink of war, he seeks help from a jaded ...","title":"The Portal","score":0.7640786170959473}'

This query uses the ``$vectorSearch`` stage to:

- Search for the specified term in the ``plot_embedding`` field

- Set the number of nearest neighbors used in the search to 150 by using the ``numCandidates`` option

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Return 10 documents by using the ``limit`` option
```
S: Add a description of what ``limit`` does

It uses the ``$project`` stage to:

> - Only include the movie ``plot`` and ``title`` fields in the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only include the movie ``plot`` and ``title`` fields in the results
```
S: Be consistent with period use. I would consider these fragments, so it doesn't need a period.

> - Add a ``score`` field to show the relevance of each result to the search term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a ``score`` field to show the relevance of each result to the search term
```
Same as above

Additional Information
----------------------

> To find more tutorials on using the {+driver-short+} to perform Atlas
> Vector Searches, see the :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search tutorials </atlas-vector-search/tutorials/>` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find more Atlas Vector Search tutorials for the {+driver-short+}, see the :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search Tutorials </atlas-vector-search/tutorials/>` 
```
S: Reword and capitalize tutorials

in the Atlas documentation.

> To learn more about Atlas Vector Search, see :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search </atlas-vector-search/>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Atlas Vector Search, see the :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search </atlas-vector-search/>` guides
```

in the Atlas documentation.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To learn more about the ``aggregate()`` method, see the
> `API documentation <{+api+}/classes/Collection.html#aggregate>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about the ``aggregate()`` method, see `aggregate() <{+api+}/classes/Collection.html#aggregate>`__ in the API documentation.
```
S: Be specific in your hypertext links

.. _node-atlas-vector-search:

================================
Run an Atlas Vector Search Query
================================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, semantic, nearest

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

> In this guide, you can learn how to use the :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search
> </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you can learn how to use the Atlas Vector Search feature
```
Remove the link here since there is a "learn more" at bottom of the section

in the {+driver-short+}. 

You can use {+vector-search+} to perform a vector search on your data stored in
Atlas. Vector search allows you to query your data based on semantic meaning
rather than just keyword matches, which helps you retrieve more relevant search
results. It enables your AI-powered applications to support use cases such as
semantic search, hybrid search, and generative search, including
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).

To learn more about {+vector-search+}, see the :atlas:`{+vector-search+}

> </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` guide in the MongoDB Atlas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` guides in the MongoDB Atlas
```

documentation.

.. important:: Feature Compatibility

   To learn what versions of MongoDB Atlas support this feature, see
   :atlas:`Limitations </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#limitations>`
   in the MongoDB Atlas documentation.

Perform a Vector Search
-----------------------

To use this feature, you must create a vector search index and index your
vector embeddings. To learn about how to programmatically create a

> vector search index, see the :atlas:`Create an Atlas Vector Search index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vector search index, see the :atlas:`Create an Atlas Vector Search Index
```
Capitalize title

</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-type/#create-an-atlas-vector-search-index>` section in the
Atlas documentation. To learn more about vector embeddings, see
:atlas:`How to Create Vector Embeddings
</atlas-vector-search/create-embeddings/>` in the Atlas documentation.

After you create a vector search index on your vector embeddings, you
can reference this index in your pipeline stage, as shown in the

> following section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
following example.
```
Since Sample Data is now the next section

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The example on this page shows how to build an aggregation pipeline that uses the

> ``$vectorSearch`` stage to perform an exact vector search on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``$vectorSearch`` stage to perform a vector search on the
```
The example is an ANN rather than an ENN search. Here's the documentation: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#fields
I think it makes sense to mention the type of search at the bottom rather than here, so I'll leave a comment in the search specs!

      `{"plot":"Agent J travels in time to M.I.B.'s early days in 1969 to stop an alien from assassinating his friend Agent K and changing history.","title":"Men in Black 3","score":0.7712380886077881}`
      '{"plot":"Bound by a shared destiny, a teen bursting with scientific curiosity and a former boy-genius inventor embark on a mission to unearth the secrets of a place somewhere in time and space that exists in their collective memory.","title":"Tomorrowland","score":0.7669923901557922}'
      '{"plot":"With the help of his uncle, a man travels to the future to try and bring his girlfriend back to life.","title":"Love Story 2050","score":0.7649372816085815}'
      '{"plot":"A dimension-traveling wizard gets stuck in the 21st century because cell-phone radiation interferes with his magic. With his home world on the brink of war, he seeks help from a jaded ...","title":"The Portal","score":0.7640786170959473}'

This query uses the ``$vectorSearch`` stage to:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform an Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) vector search
```
Include the type of search

- Search for the specified term in the ``plot_embedding`` field

- Set the number of nearest neighbors used in the search to 150 by using the
  ``numCandidates`` option

- Return a maximum of 10 documents from the query using the ``limit`` option

It uses the ``$project`` stage to:

- Only include the movie ``plot`` and ``title`` fields in the results

- Add a ``score`` field to show the relevance of each result to the search term

Additional Information
----------------------

To see more Atlas Vector Search tutorials for the {+driver-short+}, see the :atlas:`Atlas
Vector Search tutorials </atlas-vector-search/tutorials/>` in the Atlas documentation.

> To learn more about Atlas Vector Search, see the :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search </atlas-vector-search/>`
> guides in the Atlas documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about the syntax of the ``$vectorSearch`` pipeline stage,
see the Syntax and Fields sections of the 
:atlas:`Create and Run Queries </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#syntax>`
guide in the Atlas Vector Search section of the MongoDB Atlas documentation.
```
I would remove the link to the general AVS docs since there is already one above and add this link for the syntax documentation instead

``$vectorSearch`` stage to perform a vector search on the
``sample_mflix.embedded_movies`` collection in the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets
</sample-data>`.

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Vector Search Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can perform a vector search query by using the ``$vectorSearch`` stage
in an :ref:`aggregation pipeline <node-aggregation>`. To perform a vector
search on a collection, you must first have a collection with a field that contains
vector embeddings and a vector search index that covers that field. 

In the following example, the aggregation pipeline searches the ``plot``  field of each
document in the collection for text semantically related to the term "time travel". The
``queryVector`` field in the ``$vectorSearch`` pipeline is the vector representation of
your query.

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/aggregation/atlas-vector-search-example.js
      :language: javascript
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: json
      :visible: false

>       {
>       plot: 'A reporter, learning of time travelers visiting 20th century disasters, tries to change the history they know by averting upcoming disasters.',
>       title: 'Thrill Seekers',
>       score: 0.9259490966796875
>       }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      {
        plot: 'A reporter, learning of time travelers visiting 20th century disasters, tries to change the history they know by averting upcoming disasters.',
        title: 'Thrill Seekers',
        score: 0.9259490966796875
      }
```

I assume this output is being copied from an actual run, something happened to the usual indentation here

      title: 'About Time',
      score: 0.9253997802734375
      }
      {
      plot: 'An officer for a security agency that regulates time travel, must fend for his life against a shady politician who has a tie to his past.',
      title: 'Timecop',
      score: 0.922332763671875
      }
      {
      plot: 'After using his mother's newly built time machine, Dolf gets stuck
      involuntary in the year 1212. He ends up in a children's crusade where he confronts
      his new friends with modern techniques...',
      title: 'Crusade in Jeans',
      score: 0.92205810546875
      }
      {
      plot: 'Hoping to alter the events of the past, a 19th century inventor instead travels 800,000 years into the future, where he finds humankind divided into two warring races.',
      title: 'The Time Machine',
      score: 0.921875
      }
      {
      plot: 'A time-travel experiment in which a robot probe is sent from the year 2073 to the year 1973 goes terribly wrong thrusting one of the project scientists, a man named Nicholas Sinclair into a...',
      title: 'A.P.E.X.',
      score: 0.9202728271484375
      }
      {

>       plot: 'Agent J travels in time to M.I.B.'s early days in 1969 to stop an alien from assassinating his friend Agent K and changing history.',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      plot: "Agent J travels in time to M.I.B.'s early days in 1969 to stop an alien from assassinating his friend Agent K and changing history.",
```

This string is broken because there's a single quote inside of it when its being quoted by single quotes

      title: 'Men in Black 3',
      score: 0.9198150634765625
      }
      {
      plot: 'Bound by a shared destiny, a teen bursting with scientific curiosity and a former boy-genius inventor embark on a mission to unearth the secrets of a place somewhere in time and space that exists in their collective memory.',
      title: 'Tomorrowland',
      score: 0.91961669921875
      }
      {
      plot: 'A romantic drama about a Chicago librarian with a gene that causes him to involuntarily time travel, and the complications it creates for his marriage.',

>       title: 'The Time Traveler's Wife',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      title: "The Time Traveler's Wife",
```
